gh-128563: A new tail-calling interpreter (#128718)
python/cpython: Misc/NEWS.d/next/Core_and_Builtins/2025-01-10-18-56-20.gh-issue-128563.baDvls.rst

> A new type of interpreter has been added to CPython. This interpreter uses tail calls for its instruction handlers. Preliminary benchmark results suggest 7-14% geometric mean faster on pyperformance (depending on platform), and up to 45% faster on Python-intensive workloads. Patch by Ken Jin, with ideas by Garret Gu, Haoran Xu, and Josh Haberman.

Reviewer: It would be good to add an entry about the `--with-tail-calling-interp` configure option to the `Doc/using/configure.rst`. Also I think we should mention this large performance improvement in the 3.14 What's new. However, this can be done in a follow-up PR :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: Yeah I will add configure and What's New after this PR, as a documentation update.

Reviewer 2: I think we should also mention that this requires Clang-19.  (And probably before release we will want to list the python.org binaries that actually have this improvement since it may not be all of them...)  Is there a way we handle that kind of thing in What's New entries (e.g. TODO) so the release manager is reminded to come back to it?

Author: One possible (but somewhat disruptive) way would be to open a new issue, list it as `deferred-blocker`. So the release manager remembers to come back to it when the time comes.

Will open a new issue after this.

> A new type of interpreter has been added to CPython. This interpreter uses tail calls for its instruction handlers. Preliminary benchmark results suggest 7.4-14.7% geometric mean faster on pyperformance (depending on platform), and up to 45% faster on Python-intensive workloads. Patch by Ken Jin, with ideas by Garret Gu, Haoran Xu, and Josh Haberman.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A new type of interpreter has been added to CPython. This interpreter uses tail calls for its instruction handlers. Benchmark results show a 7-14% geometric mean faster on pyperformance (depending on platform), and up to 45% faster on Python-intensive workloads. Patch by Ken Jin, with ideas by Garret Gu, Haoran Xu, and Josh Haberman.
```
(number can always be updated if needed, but the news entry should not state preliminary)
(I would round to whole number, the accuracy is not that fine of the benchmarks)

Author: The benchmarks are preliminary though! I'll use a final number in the what's new entry.

> A new type of interpreter has been added to CPython. This interpreter uses tail calls for its instruction handlers. Preliminary benchmark results suggest 7-11% geometric mean faster on pyperformance (depending on platform), and up to 30% faster on Python-intensive workloads. This interpreter currently only works on newer compilers, such as ``clang-19``. Other compilers will continue using the old interpreter. Patch by Ken Jin, with ideas by Mark Shannon, Garret Gu, Haoran Xu, and Josh Haberman.

Reviewer 4: Using tail calls as a dispatching mechanism is an old idea. It possibly dates back to the original threaded code implementation back in the 1960s? Best mention that our idea is just to apply it to CPython.

Author: I've updated to say that our idea is implementing it in CPython.
